macOS: updated package dependencies and gcc support (#134)
syslog-ng/syslog-ng.github.io: doc/_dev-guide/chapter_4/section_3/README.md

### Dependencies

The above mentioned dependencies can be satisfied by compiling every-each libs and tools manually, but it might be preferred to do it the easy way. We used the official FreeBSD Ports to install the dependencies.

#### Using FreeBSD Ports

1. Perform FreeBSD Ports update if you have not done it yet.
1. The following packages should be installed for {{ site.product.short_name }}ng
   * autoconf
   * autoconf-archive
   * automake
   * bison
   * cmake
   * flex
   * gperf
   * glib
   * gmake
   * ivykis - See [bellow](#packages-note)!
   * json-c
   * libtool
   * pcre2
   * pkg-config
1. The extra modules would require the following
   * gradle
   * grpc - See [bellow](#packages-note)!
   * hiredis
   * libdbi
   * libdbi-drivers
   * libesmtp
   * libmaxminddb
   * libnet
   * libpaho-mqtt3
   * librdkafka
   * mongo-c-driver
   * net-snmp
   * python3
   * rabbitmq-c
   * riemann-c-client
1. Extra development tools you might require
   * criterion
   * gcc14 - See [bellow](#packages-note)!

> **Hint:** If you have [[{{ site.product.short_name }} installed already via FreeBSD Ports, as a reference, you can check the dependencies of the installed version using `brew deps syslog-ng`

Reviewer: [[ opened but not closed

    criterion \
    # Optional, clang now should compile all modules nicely and it is the oficially supported compiler on FreeBSD
    gcc14
```

<div id="packages-note"></div>
> **Note:**
>
> * gcc - see at [compiler selection](#select-the-compiler)
> * grpc - 
> * actual state of supported features, and the required dependencies can also be found [[here|dev-macos-mod-sup-status]].
{: .notice}

### Preparations

In general there is no need to setup a custom environment on FreeBSD, but just for sure you can add the following modifications to force the building process to use the FreeBSD Ports installed packages.

```shell
export BSDPORTS_PREFIX=/usr/local

export BSDPORTS_REPOSITORY=${BSDPORTS_PREFIX}
export MANPATH=${BSDPORTS_PREFIX}/share/man:$MANPATH
export INFOPATH=${BSDPORTS_PREFIX}/share/info:$INFOPATH
```

```shell
export PATH=${BSDPORTS_PREFIX}/bin:${BSDPORTS_PREFIX}/sbin:${PATH}
```

```shell
PKGCONF_PATH=$(pkgconf --variable pc_path pkgconf)
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=${PKGCONF_PATH}:$PKG_CONFIG_PATH
```

```shell
export CFLAGS="-I${BSDPORTS_PREFIX}/include/ ${CFLAGS}"
export CXXFLAGS="${CFLAGS} ${CXXFLAGS}"
export LDFLAGS="-L${BSDPORTS_PREFIX}/lib ${LDFLAGS}"
```

> **Note:** It could also happen that you must provide here further library inlcude and lib paths

Reviewer: [optional] See a possible rewording in the comments above

{: .notice}

### Getting the source

To get the latest master from {{ site.product.short_name }} git you can use

```shell
cd YOUR_PREFERRED_WORKING_DIR   # Replace `YOUR_PREFERRED_WORKING_DIR` with your actual preferred working dir 
git clone https://github.com/syslog-ng/syslog-ng . 
```

### Select the compiler

Latest version of {{ site.product.short_name }} [has dropped support of gcc](https://github.com/syslog-ng/syslog-ng/pull/4897), so now the platform default llvm/clang must be used to complie the source.\

> `gcc` still might compile {{ site.product.short_name }} and most of its modules, but there is no guarantie and support of it anymore.

Reviewer: Again, guarantee

**Hint:** You can always turn off any problematic module via its feature switch.
{: .notice--info}

To make sure clang is used you can use (optional):

```shell
export CC=clang
export CXX=clang++
```

For gcc (optional):

```shell
export CC=gcc     # More precisly, the full path of ypur installed gcc compiler
export CXX=g++    # More precisly, the full path of ypur installed g++ compiler
```

### Configuration

> **Note:**
>
> * for various reasons not all modules can always be configured, built and used on all FreeBSD versions and architectures
> * for using all the available modules you might have to install further dependencies as mentioned above
> * for more details, please see the [[actual state of supported features|dev-macos-mod-sup-status]], and the required [dependencies](#dependencies).
{: .notice}

#### Using autotool

```shell
# you should use `gmake` instead of `make` on FreeBSD to configure and build syslog-ng with autotools.
export MAKE=gmake

./autogen.sh

> # it is always a good idea keeping as clean the source folder as pissible, so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# it is always a good idea to  keep the source folder as clean as possible, so
```

# use a dedicated build folder for easier cleanup
mkdir build; cd build

# Finally, you can start the configuration with enabling or disabling the various modules e.g. like this

> # NOTE: you might want to use the --prefix /full_path_of_your/installdir/ parameters as well, see bellow Warning!

Reviewer: below

../configure --enable-extra-warnings --with-ivykis=system --with-systemd-journal=no --disable-java --disable-java-modules
```

> **Warning:** By a good chance, you might want to install the self built instance first to a custom location to prevent overwriting a possibly already existing installed version. In that case pass `--prefix /full_path_of_your/installdir/` to the `configure` script in the above steps.

Reviewer: This same sentence has been problematic in an earlier comment. Please refer above

```

<!--- 
TODO: once the ENABLE_ALL_MODULES implemented for cmake as well add an example of the usage of it with these required module disablings
-DENABLE_ALL_MODULES=ON -DENABLE_EBPF=OFF -DENABLE_JOURNALD=OFF -DENABLE_OPENBSD_SYS_DRIVER=OFF -DENABLE_SUN_STREAMS=OFF -DENABLE_PACCT=OFF
--->

### Compile and install

```shell
# autotools

# add AM_DEFAULT_VERBOSITY=1 before -j4 option for detailed compilation logging
gmake -j4
gmake install

# or, in a single line
# gmake -j4 install
```

```shell
#cmake

# add -v as well for detailed compilation logging
cmake --build build/. --target install -j4
```

> After a succesful build you can check the built and supported modules via

Reviewer: successful
